Matthew Penner

implang.py:

For this file, I ended up using both the built in update function with the built in environment alongside the update function written
specifically for the code.  The two working together, one for a variable I called "restored_scope" which passes in a restored environment
using a prev list and the main function called "update_self" which follows the logic from exercise5, made the results very accurate.  I ran
both imp files given in the zip file, and both printed accurately without any error messages.  I made some mistakes when writing functions
for each operation listed out in the grammar.  Instead of visiting each variable, my return statement looked like "return variable1 + variable2"
rather than "return self.visit(variable1) + self.visit(variable2)."  This confusion was very quickly cleared up.

implang2.py:

In the grammar, the existing "expr" function was renamed to "aexpr" per the assignment guidelines to avoid any confusion.  New rules were added for
dealing with the equality operators '<' and '==' under the new "expr" rule.  The Eval class has new methods to handle each of these operators.  The 
implementation was very identical to previous assignments, and I faced no challenges when initially implementing them.  Finally, I added the rule for 
"forstmt" in the grammar and made a function in Eval() that evaluates an instance of a for loop. 

When I went to test the sample imp code that was provided, I got this error: "'Tree' object is not callable."  This issue was related to how 
I was making function calls in the forstmt function.  I was calling extend in the for loop when it should've been called outside.  Additionally,
one of the parameters I was passing in was "range" which shadowed python's built in range function.  A relatively simple typo that can be easy to
overlook. When I made these changes, I got the output:
"Variable '{x}' is undefined."  

I was able to get the two test functions for implang2 to work after doing some revisions to my forstmt function.  I made the mistake of putting the 
extend function in the loop instead of update, which is where it belonged.  

The .imp files:

The biggest area I made errors was my placement of semicolons.  It was easier to create each of these files by basing each off of python code, and then
applying the syntax to the file.  For my fac.imp, I initialized 3 variables: n to equal 5, x to equal 1 as a starting number
, and i to equal 1.  i iterates until equal to 5, which is the final time the while loop is executed. x multiplies i, and i is incremented.  Finally, x is 
printed.

For my prime.imp file, I set variable y = 10 as that is the limit for this program.  Variable x was set to 2 as that is the first prime number. I used nested
while loops.  Another variable, i, was used to check for divisibility.  Variable z was a boolean value that is set to 1 (equivalent of true) and is set to
0 if it is divisible by i.  I divided x by i and then multiplied it by i to see if the result was equal to x as an alternate method to using modulus.  x increments
every single time the outer while loop runs.  

For sum.imp, I set x to 0, and iterated using a for loop added i to x until i was equal to 100.

It was very hard for me to tell if these worked or not.  I know that the grammar works as I do not get any errors in the output, meaning that the files,
although potentially may not be correct algorithmically, they do not error out. When running each of these files with implang2.py, I got this exception 
every time: "Variable '{x}' is undefined."  Test1.imp and test2.imp both work perfectly according to the output, so I encountered confusion in where my 
code was going wrong.  I resolved to place a ton of debugging statements throughout the Eval() and Env() class methods so that I can properly trace my output.
I found there were a few spots where I did not use self.visit(), so I changed those, but still found I was having the same problems as before, meaning that
correcting those conflicts of interest were not relevant to where my code was actually failing.    

At the last second, I realized I forgot to include var in the imp files for defining new variables, which is why I was getting that error.  

